        Creating a More Transparent and Environmentally Conscious Search Landscape
  It is known that for each search in Google or through an AI chat bot such as ChatGPT,
water is consumed and CO2 is produced. While the consumption of water and production of
CO2 per search is minimal, when taking into account how many searches are made each day, the
environmental impacts become much more significant. For my project, I will develop a Chrome
extension that anyone can download onto a Chrome browser that will keep track of the total
amount of water the user uses, from sources such as the Russian River Watershed, per search on
Google and ChatGPT, as well as the amount of CO2 produced from their searches.
  I will develop the application on Manifest V3, the development platform for Chrome, and
I will primarily use a combination of the TypeScript and React programming languages. I will
also make use of various Chrome APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) for development
as well as some APIs for data collection and estimating water consumption and CO2 production.
Finally, there will be a backend implementation of a database that keeps track of user statistics
and other information required to estimate their environmental impacts.
  After development, I plan to distribute my extension to a number of Sonoma State
students to collect data on how much water they use and how much CO2 they produce through
their searches. This will allow us to estimate the environmental impact of student searches.
Furthermore, after the data collection phase I will conduct a survey with the users on how they
found the extension and if it made them think differently about how they searched. In the final
analysis, we hope to be able to estimate water usage from the places like the Russian River
Watershed and CO2 consumption of searches from Sonoma State students and make conclusions
on whether the extension helps those students make more environmentally conscious decisions in
their searches.
  This project could have multiple benefits to society. Firstly, on the user level, people will
be more informed about the environmental impacts of their daily search activities. With this
information in mind, users will be better equipped to make changes in their search habits with
the goal of lessening negative impacts on the environment through searches. Furthermore, the
data collected from this extension could be used in future studies on the environmental impact of
Google searches and searches through ChatGPT. Finally, the data could be used in future
projects, such as raising awareness of the water consumed and the CO2 produced through
searches or even in measures to advocate for changes to be made by companies like Google or
OpenAI to reduce the environmental impacts of Google and ChatGPT.
